
[//]: # (PLEASE DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY, CHANGES MAY BE LOST)
[//]: # (IT IS GENERATED AUTOMATICALLY FROM THE LATEST DATA BY LPUBELTS.COM)
[//]: # (PLEASE CONTACT ANYONE ON THE TEAM AND WE WILL MAKE CHANGES FOR YOU)

## Earn Lockpicking Karate Flair

As a way to have fun (perhaps at the expense of Six Sigma) this sub gives its members the opportunity to earn user flair in the form of karate belts. Belt flair is issued based on the accomplishments of the member, with each higher level requiring increased community participation and the picking of increasingly difficult locks.

Karate Belt Flair is entirely optional and members will go "unranked" until they specifically request ranking by messaging the moderation team **with the required documentation as described below**. The moderators do not actively monitor the sub for requests and all requests must go through modmail or discord, posts requesting a belt will be removed.

You don't need to request every belt in sequence, nor start with white belt. Request the belt that best reflects your current level of skill, making sure you fulfill its requirements. Please read all the requirements for each belt carefully and make sure to check the general rules, video requirements, and other information below the ranking list.

Remember this is all just for fun... In the end, no matter what belt you have, you're still just wearing fancy pajamas.

----------

## Belt Request Instructions

### Reddit Submissions

Belts should always be requested via modmail on Reddit. Posts requesting belts will be excluded.
If you want to sync the new belt with your user on Discord, please add your Discord username with the request. (You must have made at least one post to the [LPU discord](https://discord.gg/lockpicking) for this to take effect.)

Each modmail should include:

- A link to the photo / video of the lock(s) picked. (Modmail does not support attachments, you can post your photo to the subreddit or an image hosting site like Imgur)
- The model of the lock that was picked.
- Specify what belt you are looking to rank up to.
- If the video is long, include timestamps for major events in the video (Lock opened @ X time) if timestamps are in the description that is fine.
- FOR PHOTOS - Ensure keyway is visible and clear in a picked state. We are not concerned with seeing the shackle open.
- FOR VIDEOS - Ensure clarity and proper light showing all parts of the lock during gutting process. Pins with security features must be shown closely and clearly to demonstrate said features. (The lock can be
      fully gutted with a zoom in after to show parts.) Please avoid using the Shorts format on YouTube, it
      does not allow for rewinding to see anything that was missed without watching the whole video over.

Under upper tier ranks that have multiple requirements please collect all the requirements in to one modmail and make
one request, this makes it easier to go through that modmail and ensure all requirements are filled out rather than
going back through old archived modmail to find the remainder of your requirements. **Requests may take up to 5 days to process. Any request that is missing any component will be rejected, Any request that is repeated will be put to the back of the line as we move the oldest requests out first.**

**How to Send a Modmail**

Click the "Message the moderators" Link on the sidebar just above the list of moderators for this subreddit, Or
use  [THIS LINK.](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Flockpicking)

### Discord Submissions

**DO NOT USE FORMATTING BELOW FOR REQUESTS THROUGH REDDIT MODMAIL**

All requests are made in #belt-requests through the belt bot using the following structure:
```
@LPUBeltBot request [BELTCOLOR] [Model Of Lock] https://image_or_video_link_here
```

If you wish to sync the belt to your user on Reddit you should use the following structure:
```
@LPUBeltBot request [BELTCOLOR] [Model Of Lock] sync to /u/redditusername https://image_or_video_link_here
```

Any additional information can be added below in different lines if necessary, but the above formula must be in one
line.

### Blue Belt Request Submissions

Please note that Blue Belt requests use a slightly different structure to accomodate the Project requirement for that belt. Please see the "Blue Belt Project Requirements" section below for details. Once your video and project are ready, you need to **submit or post your application**. Please be sure to follow the general requirements above.

Specific instructions for submitting your request through Reddit and Discord are below. Once your request is made, the community will vote on the quality of your project and mods will approve or reject your request.

#### Requesting Your Blue Belt on Discord

All requests are made in #belt-requests throught the belt bot using the following structure:
```
 @LPUBeltBot request BLUE [Link to picking video] + [Link to Project documentation]
```

If you wish to sync the belt to your user on Reddit you should use the following structure:
```
 @LPUBeltBot request BLUE sync to /u/redditusername [Link to picking video] + [Link to Project documentation]
```

#### Posting Your Blue Belt Request on Reddit

Once your video and project are ready, you need to post your application on r/lockpicking.

Post Title: **“Blue Belt Application – [Lock Name] + [Project Type]”**

Post Content:
- A brief description of the lock you picked.
- The picking method used (single pin picking, raking, etc.).
- Any difficulties you encountered.
- A link to your **unedited** picking video (hosted on YouTube, Streamable, or another public video platform).
- Details about your **Blue Belt project**, including photos, videos, and explanations.

Once your post is live, send a modmail to the r/lockpicking subreddit with a link to your post. The mods will review your submission and award your belt if it meets the requirements.

*Note:* Your Reddit account must be **at least 30 days old** and have **some post/comment history** to prevent spam issues.

### Brown & Black Belt Request Submissions

Please note that Brown and Black Belt requests also use a different structure to accomodate the requirements for those belts. Once your videos and Epic Quests ([Tier 2 Projects](/#/projects) and/or additional Black Belt locks) are ready, you need to submit a request with sufficient detail to document your project. Please be sure to follow the general requirements above. Contact a mod through #mod-requests or Modmail if you have questions about the information required. Please be sure to follow the general requirements above.