src/resources/projects.md, before:

You can also nominate others to receive points through:
- Exceptional Knowledge of Locks
- Community Leadership
- Lock Distribution

Completed projects will be submitted for a vote in the Black Belt community in “The Mat” Discord channel to place them within the tier structure for that discipline. The generic tier point structure is below. Some Disciplines may have fewer tiers and/or less point value based on their relative difficulty.

### Tier levels

|  Tier  | Points | Description                                                           |
|:------:|:------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   0    |   0    | Not applicable as a quest                                             |
|   1    |   5    | Novice                                                                |
|   2    |   10   | Apprentice - **minimum acceptable level for a black belt epic quest** |
|   3    |   20   | Journeyman                                                            |
|   4    |   34   | Expert                                                                |
|   5    |   50   | Mastery                                                               |


### To request
Please send the following information in PM to a mod, or include in your black belt application:

- Project Title:
- Discipline:
- Hoped for Tier: (1-5)
- Evidence:

**Note:** Project submissions must include clear documentation of the project for review. This should comprise organized and labeled images or videos. A write-up of the project, including all relevant details, is required where additional context is needed (e.g., Safe Manipulation). PDF format is preferred if possible.


## Voting Guidelines

### Case Making Project Guidelines
Each progressive tier must fulfill all prior tier requirements.

- **Tier 1** - Portfolio of at least 1 case of any material (cloth, canvas, leather, etc.) of satisfactory quality.
- **Tier 2** - Portfolio of at least 2 cases of differing materials or components and a well-thought-out design of superior quality. One of which must be a full size case. Basic skills are well-developed. Such as straight stitches.
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 4 cases with exceptional craftsmanship. A higher level of artistic merit in design and material choices. Demonstrates ability to perform common techniques well. At least two significantly different designs.
- **Tier 4** - Portfolio of at least 7 cases, including reproducing accurately at least two reasonably identical cases or producing a set of two or more cases with a (well planned and easily identifiable) theme at a high technical and artistic level. Examples of cases made of different groups of materials or components that demonstrate a high caliber of skills in a variety of advanced techniques. An emerging brand identity.
- **Tier 5** - Portfolio of at least 10 high quality cases that utilize a multitude of techniques both basic and advanced in nature, ability to reproduce cases with high accuracy. A well-defined and refined brand identity.

### Challenge Lock Making

- **Tier 1** - Portfolio of 3 good CLs or a very high quality one-off
- **Tier 2** - Portfolio of 5 well constructed CLs of high level craftsmanship including minimum 2 locks with unusual security features*. Artistic merit can help elevate a standard mid level CL to high level craftsmanship.
  - Example of a tier 2 challenge lock project: [Challenge Lock Evidence](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CSDu3E3V9ljTW4ADj_tRX4cNr7Q7VAUum_1h_u0LZyg/edit)
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 10 well constructed CLs featuring minimum of 5 locks with unusual security features*. Thematic sets, high quality artistic merit, or an attempt at technical innovation can help elevate a mid-level quality CL to high level craftsmanship.
- **Tier 4** - Relevant contribution to the pool of advanced high quality CLs (at least 20 CLs, many of which with advanced or unusual security features). Verifiable technical innovation in pin making or locking mechanisms. Significant contribution with mentoring the production and distribution of high quality challenge locks.
- **Tier 5** - Significant portfolio of advanced challenge locks (at least 40 CLs, many of which with advanced or unusual security features). Recognized community wide as an expert challenge lock maker, innovator, mentor, promoter and distributor.

*Examples of unusual security features may include: pin-in-pin, rattlesnake-style pins, articulated pins, secondary locking mechanisms, addition of magnets, combined core modifications, sleeve making, split core, upper chamber work, among others.

### Community Involvement

- **Tier 1** - Demonstrates a well-developed project with a recognizable community impact.
- **Tier 2** - Demonstrates advanced community projects. Must show a higher level of community improvement and demonstrate a commitment outside the interest of being a black belt.
- **Tier 3** - Demonstrates a unique impression on the community through the efforts of either a personal or community project. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to 3 months of devotion to said project.
  - Recently Accepted [Tier 3 Submission](/#/view?pageId=tierThreeExample)
- **Tier 4** - Demonstrates a unique and lasting impression on the community through the efforts of a community-based project. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to 6 months of devotion to said project.
- **Tier 5** - Demonstrates a mastery of community projects that create a unique and lasting impression on the community. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to a year of devotion to said project.

### Cutaway Making

- **Tier 1** - At least one good quality cutaway
- **Tier 2** - 2 good cutaways of separate locks or one of extraordinary quality. Leniency for handmade.
  - Example of a tier 2 cutaway project: [Loose_Shirt6551 BB1 Quest Cutaways](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Y7PGX88xdMlEWOWhMb7oRjJ1FBs62NNrCkwEJ0bjM5Q)
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 5 good quality cutaways, including two from mechanisms other than pin tumbler, or a double locking mechanism.
- **Tier 4** - Portfolio of at least 10 cutaways of high quality, including complex mechanisms, innovations, and various non pin tumbler mechanisms.
- **Tier 5** - Significant portfolio of advanced cutaways. Recognized community wide as an expert cutaway lockmaker. Fabrication and distribution of rare high quality cutaways.

The cutaway locks should be completely functional with a working key. Exceptions to this rule might be considered if the mechanism doesn't allow it in any obvious way, but the maker must justify this. 

### Disc Detainer Pick Making

- **Tier 1** - Create any functional front tensioning Disc Detainer pick tip/tensioner set from stock material or using parts from existing near-functional pick designs capable of picking the lock it was designed for.
- **Tier 2** - Create BOTH front-tensioning **as well as** rear- or random-tensioning Disc Detainer pick tip/tensioner sets from stock material or using parts from existing near-functional pick designs capable of picking specific locks they were designed for. **OR** Create any functional pick tip and handle from stock material or using parts from existing near-functional pick designs capable of picking the lock it was designed for.
  -- Recently Accepted [Tier 2 Submission](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F9bHUqpbcpA)
- **Tier 3** - At least 2 additional advanced pick tips* for at least 2 different locks with at least 2 different tensioning methods. All tips must demonstrate working to pick the locks they were designed for.
- **Tier 4** - Added 2 more advanced tips* for 2 different locks, fulfilling previous tiers. Must have created a handle for each of two different tensioning methods OR a handle capable of different types of tensioning. Must be of high quality of build.
- **Tier 5** - Demonstrate ability to make state-of-the-art setups including EITHER handles with extra or innovative features OR notably high quality, advanced* and functional tips for many high difficulty DD locks

*Other than generic, Abus Plus, Anchor Las, Abloy Classic, Abloy Disklock, and similar tips, or including any new design distinct from commonly available ones.

### Impressioning

- **Tier 1** - Blind impressioning* of a simple wafer lock or 4 or fewer pins in a pin tumbler.
- **Tier 2** - Blind impressioning of 5 or more pins, simple pin tumbler or dimple lock.
  - Example of a tier 2 impressioning project: https://youtu.be/NWfle86S6oQ
- **Tier 3** - Blind impressioning of at least 2 pin tumblers or dimple locks, that include 2+ keypins with significant security features, or false gated elements.
- **Tier 4** - Blind impressioning of 2 locks of each of 3 different types of locks (wafer, pin tumbler, dimple, lever...).
- **Tier 5** - Portfolio of advanced impressioning skill including various impressioned lock types. Must include demonstration of lever impressioning ability OR impressioning of a complex locking mechanism (example: rotating pin mechanisms).

*Blind impressioning is defined as impressioned without access to the key or possibility to disassemble the lock. All Tiers must fulfill the previous ones. Being provided a lock from a trusted source (e.g. a member of LPU staff or a black belt) who can vouch for it being keyless is acceptable. Unguttable padlocks are acceptable, as are other formats provided they can be made tamperproof, for example by sealing screws with wax or intentionally stripping screws to make them unremovable. 

### Pick Making

- **Tier 1** - portfolio of 2 good quality picks
- **Tier 2** - Portfolio of at least 3 picks plus unusual designs or artistic merit
  - Examples of [Recently Accepted Picks By Tier](https://imgur.com/a/fqheYLF)
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 5 picks, including some with new innovations or high level artistic/technical merit. Examples of picks made with both full and partial tangs. Examples of both hooks and rakes or other useful profiles
- **Tier 4** - Portfolio of at least 7 picks, including matched sets (at least 2 picks) of exceptional technical and artistic level. Examples of handles made of different groups of materials, and examples of combinations of at least 2 different materials (pins excluded)
- **Tier 5** - Portfolio of at least 10 high quality picks, fulfilling criteria for previous tiers. Demonstration of different inlay and sculpting techniques. Additional matched sets (at least 3 picks) of professional-level technical and artistic level using multiple materials and inlays for the same pick.

### Safe Lock Manipulation

- **Tier 1** - Unrated safe or complex combination lock. **[A list of Tier 1 locks](/#/view?pageId=safeLocksTierOne)** is available.
- **Tier 2** - Group 2 safe of easier type e.g. S&G 6700, Big Red CDL3. Dials with false gates, such as a 6642, also count as tier 2.
  - Example of a tier 2 safecracking project: [Group 2 Safe Manipulation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xyrVUziE0umP-zhbpzN42ZpvexI-JhGwoonjgZTjyiI/edit?usp=sharing).
  - Cutaways will not be accepted.
- **Tier 3** - Group 2/2M safe of harder type e.g. 4 wheels: LaGard 1800, Chubb 7L64 or false gates and nose roller like the S&G 6630.
- **Tier 4** - Group 1 with established method - requires more than just a graphing attack.
- **Tier 5** - Opening any previously unopened combination lock with a new method.

Safe dials should have the code set by another source (does not have to be an LPU member) and the cracker should be able to describe their process and show work for how the code was determined.

### Tool Making

- **Tier 1** - Portfolio of 2 good quality specialized tools.
- **Tier 2** - Portfolio of at least 3 unique tools plus unusual designs or artistic merit.
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 5 tools, including some with new innovations or high level artistic/production merit.
- **Tier 4** - Portfolio of at least 7 tools, including reproducing accurately at least two reasonably identical tools or producing a set of two or more tools with a (well planned and easily identifiable) theme at a high technical and artistic level. Examples of tools made of different groups of materials or components that demonstrate a high caliber of skills in a variety of advanced techniques. An emerging brand identity.
- **Tier 5** - Portfolio of at least 10 high quality tools that utilize a multitude of techniques both basic and advanced in nature, ability to reproduce tools with high accuracy. A well-defined and refined brand identity.

### Other Approved Projects

Below are general guidelines for Other Projects, though each will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Please contact LPU staff about the Tier levels for your project in advance.

- **Tier 1** - Demonstrates a well-developed skill or other unique and novel project. Must show a clear influence to personal advancement (e.g. skills, certifications and experience).
- **Tier 2** - Demonstrates advanced skills or other unique and novel projects. Must show a higher level of self or community improvement and demonstrate a commitment outside the interest of being a black belt.
- **Tier 3** - Demonstrates advanced skills or other unique and novel projects. Must demonstrate a unique impression on the community through the efforts of either a personal or community project. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to 3 months of devotion to said project.
- **Tier 4** - Demonstrates a mastery of skills on unique and novel projects. Must demonstrate a unique and lasting impression on the community. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to 6 months of devotion to said project.
- **Tier 5** - Demonstrates a mastery of skills or other unique and novel projects. Must demonstrate a unique and lasting impression on the community and advance the boundaries of locksport. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to a year of devotion to said project.

**Candidates include:**
- Exceptional knowledge of locks and keyways
- Electronics projects that decode or bypass locks
- Make a lock from scratch
- Formation and leadership of a TOOOL chapter or other community organization
- Other projects may be evaluated for Dan points with prior LPU staff approval.

Commit message:

add current tier to Project requests

src/resources/projects.md, after:

You can also nominate others to receive points through:
- Exceptional Knowledge of Locks
- Community Leadership
- Lock Distribution

Completed projects will be submitted for a vote in the Black Belt community in “The Mat” Discord channel to place them within the tier structure for that discipline. The generic tier point structure is below. Some Disciplines may have fewer tiers and/or less point value based on their relative difficulty.

### Tier levels

|  Tier  | Points | Description                                                           |
|:------:|:------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   0    |   0    | Not applicable as a quest                                             |
|   1    |   5    | Novice                                                                |
|   2    |   10   | Apprentice - **minimum acceptable level for a black belt epic quest** |
|   3    |   20   | Journeyman                                                            |
|   4    |   34   | Expert                                                                |
|   5    |   50   | Mastery                                                               |


### To request
Please send the following information in PM to a mod, or include in your black belt application:

- Project Title
- Discipline
- Hoped for Tier (1-5)
- Evidence
- Current Tier (if applicable)
- Link to evidence of current tier

**Note:** Project submissions must include clear documentation of the project for review. This should comprise organized and labeled images or videos. A write-up of the project, including all relevant details, is required where additional context is needed (e.g., Safe Manipulation). PDF format is preferred if possible.

If you currently have a Tier awarded in this discipline, please include a description of the progress you have made towards your desired Tier.

## Voting Guidelines

### Case Making Project Guidelines
Each progressive tier must fulfill all prior tier requirements.

- **Tier 1** - Portfolio of at least 1 case of any material (cloth, canvas, leather, etc.) of satisfactory quality.
- **Tier 2** - Portfolio of at least 2 cases of differing materials or components and a well-thought-out design of superior quality. One of which must be a full size case. Basic skills are well-developed. Such as straight stitches.
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 4 cases with exceptional craftsmanship. A higher level of artistic merit in design and material choices. Demonstrates ability to perform common techniques well. At least two significantly different designs.
- **Tier 4** - Portfolio of at least 7 cases, including reproducing accurately at least two reasonably identical cases or producing a set of two or more cases with a (well planned and easily identifiable) theme at a high technical and artistic level. Examples of cases made of different groups of materials or components that demonstrate a high caliber of skills in a variety of advanced techniques. An emerging brand identity.
- **Tier 5** - Portfolio of at least 10 high quality cases that utilize a multitude of techniques both basic and advanced in nature, ability to reproduce cases with high accuracy. A well-defined and refined brand identity.

### Challenge Lock Making

- **Tier 1** - Portfolio of 3 good CLs or a very high quality one-off
- **Tier 2** - Portfolio of 5 well constructed CLs of high level craftsmanship including minimum 2 locks with unusual security features*. Artistic merit can help elevate a standard mid level CL to high level craftsmanship.
  - Example of a tier 2 challenge lock project: [Challenge Lock Evidence](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CSDu3E3V9ljTW4ADj_tRX4cNr7Q7VAUum_1h_u0LZyg/edit)
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 10 well constructed CLs featuring minimum of 5 locks with unusual security features*. Thematic sets, high quality artistic merit, or an attempt at technical innovation can help elevate a mid-level quality CL to high level craftsmanship.
- **Tier 4** - Relevant contribution to the pool of advanced high quality CLs (at least 20 CLs, many of which with advanced or unusual security features). Verifiable technical innovation in pin making or locking mechanisms. Significant contribution with mentoring the production and distribution of high quality challenge locks.
- **Tier 5** - Significant portfolio of advanced challenge locks (at least 40 CLs, many of which with advanced or unusual security features). Recognized community wide as an expert challenge lock maker, innovator, mentor, promoter and distributor.

*Examples of unusual security features may include: pin-in-pin, rattlesnake-style pins, articulated pins, secondary locking mechanisms, addition of magnets, combined core modifications, sleeve making, split core, upper chamber work, among others.

### Community Involvement

- **Tier 1** - Demonstrates a well-developed project with a recognizable community impact.
- **Tier 2** - Demonstrates advanced community projects. Must show a higher level of community improvement and demonstrate a commitment outside the interest of being a black belt.
- **Tier 3** - Demonstrates a unique impression on the community through the efforts of either a personal or community project. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to 3 months of devotion to said project.
  - Recently Accepted [Tier 3 Submission](/#/view?pageId=tierThreeExample)
- **Tier 4** - Demonstrates a unique and lasting impression on the community through the efforts of a community-based project. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to 6 months of devotion to said project.
- **Tier 5** - Demonstrates a mastery of community projects that create a unique and lasting impression on the community. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to a year of devotion to said project.

### Cutaway Making

- **Tier 1** - At least one good quality cutaway
- **Tier 2** - 2 good cutaways of separate locks or one of extraordinary quality. Leniency for handmade.
  - Example of a tier 2 cutaway project: [Loose_Shirt6551 BB1 Quest Cutaways](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Y7PGX88xdMlEWOWhMb7oRjJ1FBs62NNrCkwEJ0bjM5Q)
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 5 good quality cutaways, including two from mechanisms other than pin tumbler, or a double locking mechanism.
- **Tier 4** - Portfolio of at least 10 cutaways of high quality, including complex mechanisms, innovations, and various non pin tumbler mechanisms.
- **Tier 5** - Significant portfolio of advanced cutaways. Recognized community wide as an expert cutaway lockmaker. Fabrication and distribution of rare high quality cutaways.

The cutaway locks should be completely functional with a working key. Exceptions to this rule might be considered if the mechanism doesn't allow it in any obvious way, but the maker must justify this. 

### Disc Detainer Pick Making

- **Tier 1** - Create any functional front tensioning Disc Detainer pick tip/tensioner set from stock material or using parts from existing near-functional pick designs capable of picking the lock it was designed for.
- **Tier 2** - Create BOTH front-tensioning **as well as** rear- or random-tensioning Disc Detainer pick tip/tensioner sets from stock material or using parts from existing near-functional pick designs capable of picking specific locks they were designed for. **OR** Create any functional pick tip and handle from stock material or using parts from existing near-functional pick designs capable of picking the lock it was designed for.
  -- Recently Accepted [Tier 2 Submission](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F9bHUqpbcpA)
- **Tier 3** - At least 2 additional advanced pick tips* for at least 2 different locks with at least 2 different tensioning methods. All tips must demonstrate working to pick the locks they were designed for.
- **Tier 4** - Added 2 more advanced tips* for 2 different locks, fulfilling previous tiers. Must have created a handle for each of two different tensioning methods OR a handle capable of different types of tensioning. Must be of high quality of build.
- **Tier 5** - Demonstrate ability to make state-of-the-art setups including EITHER handles with extra or innovative features OR notably high quality, advanced* and functional tips for many high difficulty DD locks

*Other than generic, Abus Plus, Anchor Las, Abloy Classic, Abloy Disklock, and similar tips, or including any new design distinct from commonly available ones.

### Impressioning

- **Tier 1** - Blind impressioning* of a simple wafer lock or 4 or fewer pins in a pin tumbler.
- **Tier 2** - Blind impressioning of 5 or more pins, simple pin tumbler or dimple lock.
  - Example of a tier 2 impressioning project: https://youtu.be/NWfle86S6oQ
- **Tier 3** - Blind impressioning of at least 2 pin tumblers or dimple locks, that include 2+ keypins with significant security features, or false gated elements.
- **Tier 4** - Blind impressioning of 2 locks of each of 3 different types of locks (wafer, pin tumbler, dimple, lever...).
- **Tier 5** - Portfolio of advanced impressioning skill including various impressioned lock types. Must include demonstration of lever impressioning ability OR impressioning of a complex locking mechanism (example: rotating pin mechanisms).

*Blind impressioning is defined as impressioned without access to the key or possibility to disassemble the lock. All Tiers must fulfill the previous ones. Being provided a lock from a trusted source (e.g. a member of LPU staff or a black belt) who can vouch for it being keyless is acceptable. Unguttable padlocks are acceptable, as are other formats provided they can be made tamperproof, for example by sealing screws with wax or intentionally stripping screws to make them unremovable. 

### Pick Making

- **Tier 1** - portfolio of 2 good quality picks
- **Tier 2** - Portfolio of at least 3 picks plus unusual designs or artistic merit
  - Examples of [Recently Accepted Picks By Tier](https://imgur.com/a/fqheYLF)
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 5 picks, including some with new innovations or high level artistic/technical merit. Examples of picks made with both full and partial tangs. Examples of both hooks and rakes or other useful profiles
- **Tier 4** - Portfolio of at least 7 picks, including matched sets (at least 2 picks) of exceptional technical and artistic level. Examples of handles made of different groups of materials, and examples of combinations of at least 2 different materials (pins excluded)
- **Tier 5** - Portfolio of at least 10 high quality picks, fulfilling criteria for previous tiers. Demonstration of different inlay and sculpting techniques. Additional matched sets (at least 3 picks) of professional-level technical and artistic level using multiple materials and inlays for the same pick.

### Safe Lock Manipulation

- **Tier 1** - Unrated safe or complex combination lock. **[A list of Tier 1 locks](/#/view?pageId=safeLocksTierOne)** is available.
- **Tier 2** - Group 2 safe of easier type e.g. S&G 6700, Big Red CDL3. Dials with false gates, such as a 6642, also count as tier 2.
  - Example of a tier 2 safecracking project: [Group 2 Safe Manipulation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xyrVUziE0umP-zhbpzN42ZpvexI-JhGwoonjgZTjyiI/edit?usp=sharing).
  - Cutaways will not be accepted.
- **Tier 3** - Group 2/2M safe of harder type e.g. 4 wheels: LaGard 1800, Chubb 7L64 or false gates and nose roller like the S&G 6630.
- **Tier 4** - Group 1 with established method - requires more than just a graphing attack.
- **Tier 5** - Opening any previously unopened combination lock with a new method.

Safe dials should have the code set by another source (does not have to be an LPU member) and the cracker should be able to describe their process and show work for how the code was determined.

### Tool Making

- **Tier 1** - Portfolio of 2 good quality specialized tools.
- **Tier 2** - Portfolio of at least 3 unique tools plus unusual designs or artistic merit.
- **Tier 3** - Portfolio of at least 5 tools, including some with new innovations or high level artistic/production merit.
- **Tier 4** - Portfolio of at least 7 tools, including reproducing accurately at least two reasonably identical tools or producing a set of two or more tools with a (well planned and easily identifiable) theme at a high technical and artistic level. Examples of tools made of different groups of materials or components that demonstrate a high caliber of skills in a variety of advanced techniques. An emerging brand identity.
- **Tier 5** - Portfolio of at least 10 high quality tools that utilize a multitude of techniques both basic and advanced in nature, ability to reproduce tools with high accuracy. A well-defined and refined brand identity.

### Other Approved Projects

Below are general guidelines for Other Projects, though each will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Please contact LPU staff about the Tier levels for your project in advance.

- **Tier 1** - Demonstrates a well-developed skill or other unique and novel project. Must show a clear influence to personal advancement (e.g. skills, certifications and experience).
- **Tier 2** - Demonstrates advanced skills or other unique and novel projects. Must show a higher level of self or community improvement and demonstrate a commitment outside the interest of being a black belt.
- **Tier 3** - Demonstrates advanced skills or other unique and novel projects. Must demonstrate a unique impression on the community through the efforts of either a personal or community project. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to 3 months of devotion to said project.
- **Tier 4** - Demonstrates a mastery of skills on unique and novel projects. Must demonstrate a unique and lasting impression on the community. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to 6 months of devotion to said project.
- **Tier 5** - Demonstrates a mastery of skills or other unique and novel projects. Must demonstrate a unique and lasting impression on the community and advance the boundaries of locksport. Usually, the effort of this level would be equivalent to a year of devotion to said project.

**Candidates include:**
- Exceptional knowledge of locks and keyways
- Electronics projects that decode or bypass locks
- Make a lock from scratch
- Formation and leadership of a TOOOL chapter or other community organization
- Other projects may be evaluated for Dan points with prior LPU staff approval.
